so I have to have certification in
nutrition so advanced advanced
simulation from the Australian Institute
of Fitness okay a lot of people who saw
that clip just picked up on the tension
in what frailer was saying and they
started to suspect that she was lying I
got in touch with the institution she
alluded to I didn't ask about freely or
her specific record I just presented
myself as a possible student and asked
for the details of the program and yeah
as you get into the details it becomes
evident pretty quickly that she could
not possibly have been a student let
alone a graduate there The Sydney
Morning Herald did the same thing I did
old-fashioned fact-checking earlier this
year she told the Today program she had
received a certificate in nutrition from
the Australian Institute of Fitness
period a claim the organisation refutes
period I can confirm that she has
definitely not studied with the
Institute now the other thing that sort
of makes this disturbing if you just
glance back at the clip I already played
for you it's not just freely lying once
it's freely lying twice because in the
bottom right corner of the screen
that's her watching and commenting on
her earlier performance on the TV
program so if she made a mistake
or if she wanted to address her own lie
or misrepresentation she had the
opportunity right there years and years
later
Jezebel same researcher talked to me
from Jezebel the same journalist you can
hear the interview who I gave to Jezebel
on this channel the audio recordings of
that were uploaded here as YouTube
videos terrible journalists terrible
interview but I managed to say a few
interesting things that interview
despite the fact that the journalist
herself was as dumb as a barrel full of
thumbtacks rollin down a staircase em
anyway
though she proudly claims years of
experience coaching thousands of girls
as their true education freely does
claim some minor
and nutrition credentials and
aggressively defends them that's that's
interesting she doesn't do that on
YouTube I guess she just aggressively
defends them when this journalist is
talking to her
according to freely quote some trolls on
the Internet
close quote have tried to discredit her
nutritional background referring to an
article in The Sydney Morning Herald
that fact checked her claim of having
attended the australian institute of
fitness i I don't know why the word
article is underlined oh I guess it's a
link you can click on that and get there
okay that makes sense all right this was
a simple error
she said due to the volume of Institutes
with similar names in Australia I was at
Fitness Institute of Australia so maybe
I said Australian Institute of fitness
or something but it's very easy to
confuse them freely does appear to have
attained fitness certificates from
various fit nation courses I don't even
know what this acronym is supposed to be
some kind of course although she says
she couldn't find her nutrition training
certificate let's be very clear having
credentials in nutrition as a
nutritionist is something completely
different from being certified to be a
personal trainer at a gym doing exercise
you know exercise training or coaching
having a coaching certificate the
science of nutrition you know in bowls
involves things like good old-fashioned
organic chemistry and exam none of us
would enjoy studying for the least of
our own freely
anyway we continue here I didn't hear
back from the Institute where she says
she studied Dietetics 16 years ago but
she warned me in an otherwise friendly
and obliging email back and forth quote
I was definitely enrolled so please do
not portray like I lied about this or
the course as with enough digging around
it would be found and that will look bad
on your behalf if I am forced to make a
video right okay so sixteen years ago
she may be enrolled in a course that she
dropped out of and didn't complete
and maybe she has certification as a
trainer and maybe she didn't lie
she just didn't remember the name of the
Institute and maybe she still doesn't
remember the name of the Institute and
maybe she just can't find her
certificate yeah okay I'm convinced how
about how about you guys how about you
so I have conventional certification in
nutrition but I don't use that training
at all anymore because it's so heavily
funded by the meat and dairy industry
that the information is just incorrect
certification do you have freely so I
have to have certification in nutrition
so advanced advanced somewhere Asian
from the Australian Institute of fitness
okay so the thing is though I don't use
this at all because it is so heavily
funded by the meat and dairy industry
[Music]